#summary API Reference for towel-db
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

=Introduction=
The API is extremely simple, as expected from such a simple database library.  Describes version 0.9.
As 0.9.x is still under development, this page is deemed unstable and may change at my discretion.

=Objects=
==Global==
===Functions===
{{{
is_key_valid( key )
}}}
Check if a record key _key_ is valid.

{{{
db_exists( path )
}}}
Check if the database at _path_ exists and is a valid database.  Returns a boolean.

{{{
def open( path, mode=DB_READ )
}}}
Open a database at _path_ with _mode_ permissions.

===Constants===
 * DB_VERSION - Version of the database implemented.

The mode given to open() can be:
 * DB_READ - Read-only
 * DB_WRITE - Read/Write
 * DB_CREATE - Read/Write, create if needed

Record keys can be checked for validity with these constants:
 * KEY_MAX_LEN - The maximum length of a record key
 * KEY_DANGEROUS - A list of prohibited characters
 * DB_RESERVED - Reserved record names

===Errors===
 * DBError - Base class for towel-db errors
  * DBVersionMismatch - Version of the database being opened is different from that of the library.
  * DBWrongMode - A requested operation isn't compatible with the requested database open mode.
  * DBNotFound - The requested database couldn't be found.
  * DBInvalidKey - A key that was too long, reserved, or had illegal characters was used.

==Database - Db==
===Functions===
{{{
create_key( key )
}}}
Create a new record with a key of _key_.  _key_ may be a string or an integer.

{{{
drop()
}}}
Delete the database.

===Usage===
{{{
# Record creation.  db.create_key() is preferred over assignment of None
db.create_key( 'foo' )
db.create_key( 42 )
db['bar'] = None

# Record copying
db['bah'] = db['foo']

# Record deletion
del db['foo']

# Database iteration
for key in db:
    print key
    print db[key]['test']

# Number of records
print len( db )
}}}

==Record _Record==
Please to not create _Record objects yourself.  They will be returned as needed by a Db instance.
===Functions===
{{{
change_key( key, clear=True )
}}}
Mutator function to change the key of a record object.  May be made private before 1.0.

{{{
get_key()
}}}
Accessor function to get the key of a record.

{{{
clear()
}}}
Clear all the data in the record.

{{{
sync()
}}}
Flush all changes to disk.

{{{
keys()
}}}
Return a list of field keys within the record.

===Usage===
{{{
# Assignment
record['name'] = 'foo'
record['summary'] = 'bar'
record[3] = 'foobar'

# Field copying
record['bah'] = record['name']

# Field deletion
del record['name']

# Writing
record.sync()

# Iteration
for key in record:
    print key
    print record[key]

# Number of fields
print len( record )

# List of keys
print db.keys
}}}
